Question

Which frequency characteristics of seismic P-wave can be used to distinguish it from other waves?





Nice to have

* The answer could explain some techniques such as Fourier transform that are used to analyze the frequency characteristics of seismic waves.

Supporting quotes

"Seismic data processing algorithms often can be described or implemented more simply in the frequency domain than in the time domain. The one-dimensional (1-D) Fourier transform is introduced and some basic properties of time series in both time and frequency domains are described. Many of the processing techniques -- single- and multichannel, involve an operand (seismic trace) and an operator (filter). A simple application of Fourier analysis is in the design of zero-phase frequency filters, typically in the form of band-pass filtering."

"The two-dimensional (2-D) Fourier transform is a way to decompose a seismic wavefield, such as a common-shot gather, into its plane-wave components, each with a certain frequency propagating at a certain angle from the vertical. Therefore, the 2-D Fourier transform can describe processes like migration and frequency-wavenumber (f - k) filtering."

"Recently, the world of two dimensional transforms has been considerably expanded by the introduction of new varieties of two dimensional multiresolution transforms. Examples of them are ridgelets, beamlets, ridgelet packets, curvelets, diplet and contourlets. Wavelet Transform Teager-Kaiser (WT-KE) Energy is a seismic attribute applied to reveal geological features. We use the Teager-Kaiser energy associated with wavelet transform to generate a joint time-frequency representation,which can be used as a nonlinear energy tracking of the seismic waves"

"Seismic reflection data are non-stationary in nature, because of their frequency variation with time. The geoscientist has great interests in the trends and periodicities generated by complex subsurface geological structures. Generally, the Fourier transform is used to study these trends and periodicities in the geophysical time series. It is a mathematical tool that breaks down a time series signal into its component frequencies. Therefore, Fourier transform is a mathematical depiction of signal amplitudes of discrete components that construct it. Frequency-domain representation of the signal and the process of transformation from time to frequency domain are called Fourier transform [28]."




